Write in this lecture we're going to be going over how to create still life drawings from life now now
drawing from life is extremely important.
And we've already been over this but now we want to dedicate a whole section to drawn from life.
Now why is drawn from life so important.
Well drawn from life is really important because all of your artwork is going to be based off of real
life whether you're drawing artwork that are objects from everyday life or you're creating your own
worlds in fantasy worlds.
You're still going to need to know how real life works.
And the thing is everything cannot be proved and shown by using math formulas and rules.
Sometimes you just have to actually look at objects and draw them exactly the way you see them until
you understand how they work.
And then you can become a great artist.
So it is very important to draw a lot of objects from real life they have really good light on them
so you can understand how lighting and how perspective and values and contrast and sheeps work.
It's the best way to learn.
So let's go ahead and get started with the basics of drawing from life.
So the first thing that you need to know about drawn from life is you're trying to copy and mimic exactly
what you see.
Now that's not to say that you can't make any small changes to make it look better but for the most
part you want to try to copy the exact shape the exact value of your object.
So the first thing we're going to go over is take a measurement of your object.
Well the way you do this is by taking your pencil and you're going to hold it in front of your object.
OK.
So we're going to hold this to about here and then what you want to do is you want to put your finger
and mark where the end of your object is.
Now you have that measurement of your object you want to make sure that your arm is completely and fully
extended so that every time you take this measurement it's the same exact distance.
So you get the same proportions if you don't.
If I move this closer.
Well now it changes and so it has to move my thumb to there.
And so if I keep going back and forth and trying to take measurements of this fork but from different
distances away from my eyes then that's going to mess up my measurements.
You want to make sure that every time that you have your arm extended all the way out.
So it's the same every time.
Once you get that measurement then what you're going to do is you're going to go ahead and take this
measurement on your pencil and you can lay it down on your paper and then using a second pencil you
can go ahead and mark from one end to the other.
And now you know the distance for that object.
Now depending on how close the object is that's going to determine how big your object will appear on
your paper.
So right now it would be pretty small but if I were to get closer to my object you'll see that it becomes
a lot bigger.
I mean I can make it as big as my pencil and if I bring it all the way towards it you'll see that my
pencil isn't even big enough to capture the whole force.
So that's also a really important thing is how close is your object.
The closer it is the larger it'll be on your paper The further away it is and the smaller it's going
to be.
So if I bring my pencil all the way up to here my fork is very small.
Now I bring this back you'll see my fork has a very short distance.
Now if I were to mark that on my paper.
So you're going to take some basic measurements when you're drawing from still life.
You're probably going to take the width of your object and then you're also going to take the height
of your object.
So I would take the height of my object just like so.
And I want to take the tallest part my object which is this part of the fork.
So once you've taken your measurements of your object you're going to go ahead and transfer those measurements
onto your paper money on your paper.
You're going to go ahead and start sketching within those guidelines which are your measurement lines.
And then you can work from there.
The point of taking the measurements is to make sure that you get the correct proportions throughout
your entire time.
Now let's have a look at the three basic types of drawing techniques.
When it comes to creating an still life drawings.
So the first one is called cross-hatching.
So what is crosshatching.
Well cross-hatching is a very popular way to create sketches and what it is is it's very similar to
drawing with cross concrete lines.
The only difference is that these lines will cross each other in different directions.
So for example let's go ahead and add some shading to our sphere.
So I'm going to start off by adding my crosscountry in for my main shadow which is going to be my core
shadow.
The next what on to do is add some crosshatching lines in there.
So crosshatching lines are just going to cross with these lines.
And the more they cross the darker it's going to create the illusion of value.
So I'm going to go ahead and add some crosshatching in for my course shadow
like so.
Another area appears to be darker.
I can even add in a skinnier line of that crosshatching right through the middle of that to darken the
middle of my core shadow.
And then I can even add another layer layer of crosshatching in.
So dirt in this area to also help blend it into my highlight
it then we can go ahead and add in our cast shadows and go ahead and sketch the sheep and my cat shadow
and then to create or cash out so we can just add in some diagonal lines like so and then we'll do the
same theme coming in the other direction because this is cross-hatching.
So basically all cross-hatching is is crossing lines that create Vagas.
The more you cross them and the darker the lines the more value or the darker the value is going to
be.
Now let's go ahead and move on to our next type of drawing technique.
Now there are other drawing techniques besides these ones but these are the most commonly used ones.
And so we're only going to be going over these ones now blending is something that we've used up to
this point.
And so what blending is is it's basically just layering in your values.
So we start with a lighter value.
Then we start to introduce a darker value.
And we just start layering in darker and darker values and we try to blend these in by pushing a little
bit harder as we get to the other value.
So it can slowly blend into the next one.
So our darker value blends into lighter value and then our value blends into our highlight
how this process can take a little while but it can also look very good.
So now that I have my mid-tone shadow in there I can go ahead and add in my core shadow something to
go ahead and added in like so inserting a little bit lighter and will continue to darken that core shadow
but we just want to make sure that we're blending those two values together very well.
And we do that by drawing very lightly and in layers.
All right now let's go ahead and add in the cash shadow so go ahead and draw that shape and we can slowly
add in that value.
And I want it to fade out as we get to this and some of the slowly add in my first light value then
I'll add in a little bit darker value and a little and a little bit sooner and then I'll go ahead and
added my last value.
So in so now I have a nice blend between all those values.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and move on to the last one.
So the last drawing style is called rendering and what rendering is.
It's basically starting out with a neutral value for background and then we draw and create highlights
on top of that.
So let me show you what I mean.
So what we'll do is we'll go ahead and lately put in a nice mid gray background.
Just like so then we're going to go ahead and grab every racer and we're going to race away our highlight.
So it is going to be summer about here and make sure you don't do too dark of a background otherwise
you're going to have a hard time.
You Racinet.
So now we have our highlighted area.
Go ahead and blend that in just a little bit more so that we can go ahead and add in some darker areas.
So I might add in my core shadow right along here.
Basically what we're doing is we're starting out with a mid neutral color which is our gray background.
And from there we're going in and we're finding where our object is and we're creating it by adding
in highlights and dark shadows.
But we already have our mid-tone because our entire drawing is covered with our mid-tone.
All right great.
Now let's go ahead and add in our cast shadow so go ahead and sketch that shapen and I'll go ahead and
Anadin just like so.
And so that's rendering.
Now there are other places for you to use rendering and would be a lot more effective.
For example if you have great tone paper which is just a mid-tone gray paper there could pencils that
are called Prisma colors which you see me use a blue one in this course so far but these colored pencils
allow you to draw on top of mid-tone colors.
And so I could take a white colored pencil and draw on top of the gray paper and that would allow me
to add in my highlights and then I can take a black colored pencil and add in my dark shadows and that
mid-tone really neutralizes my piece of artwork and makes it a lot easier to create my drawing because
I already have a mid-tone background so I don't have to worry about any of my midterms I have to worry
about my shadows and my highlights.
All right that brings us to the end of this election.
So in this lecture we learned how to take measurements of a object from still life so that we can put
them onto a paper and then sketch that.
Next we learn the three basic sketch types that we'll be using to create our still life drawings.
So the first one is crosshatching which is where you have cross country lines that cross with each other.
So just down here in our cash shadow where we have criss crossing lines to create that dark value.
Then the next one is blending.
Blending is just where you lightly layer your values until they get darker and darker till you get to
your darkest value.
And that way you create that nice blend between all of your values.
Then the last one is rendering where you start off with a neutral background which is a mid-tone gray.
And then you erase out or add in your highlight and then you add in your dark shadows so you don't have
to worry about your mid-tone colors.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one where we're
going to draw a still life of a banana and some fabric and we're really going to start understanding
how real life works through sketching from real life objects.